---
layout: post
title: SP or not SP, that is the question...
date: 2004-08-13 13:34
author: jrj
comments: false
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
I'm pushing the latest update from Microsoft <a href="http://www.small-biz-advisor.com/news/blog/2004/08/sp-or-not-sp-that-is-question.html">on the Small Biz Advisor site</a>. I really think everyone needs to install this update-- it's a watershed event in the area of computer security. (There's a lot more to SP2 than the security updates-- especially if you're running the Tablet PC or Media Center editions of XP... but the security updates are the primary driving force behind my recommendation.)<br /><br />Are there going to be a few compatibility issues with XP SP2? Yeah, probably. However, the bottom line is that a system that is not secure by definition is not reliable... so the days of staying a few months behind on updates in the interest of stability are over. Turn on automatic updates NOW, and you'll get SP2 in the next week or two.<br /><br />I'm even going a step further, and recommending users of older version of Windows should seriously consider that it might be time for an upgrade...<br /><br />*<blockquote>"If you're running Windows 95, 98, or Me, it's time to upgrade to XP. Wait a couple weeks, and then buy a $500 machine that comes pre-installed with SP2. If you're running Windows 2000 I'm changing my tune: I used to say that there was no compelling reason for small business owners to move from 2000 to XP, but with the advent of XP SP2 there is a significant security advantage to XP-- it's time to make the switch, and it should be pretty painless."</blockquote>*<br /><br />This is important stuff, folks. Either turn on automatic updates, or <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyId=049C9DBE-3B8E-4F30-8245-9E368D3CDB5A&amp;displaylang=en" target="_blank">download the massive network installer</a> and upgrade now. (Of course, if you're running a Tablet PC than you've probably already upgraded, since the Tablet PC 2005 bits come with SP2, and it's such a compelling upgrade.)
