---
layout: post
title: Ebay and Small Business
date: 2004-07-27 06:41
author: jrj
comments: false
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
Small Business Trends has a quick look at <a href="http://www.smallbusinesses.blogspot.com/2004/07/its-ebay-world.html" target="_blank">how the Ebay juggernaut is impacting small businesses</a>. (Often the impact is that of creation: many small businesses have been started solely as eBay stores!)<br /><br /><blockquote>*Millions of eBay sellers are small businesses, many of them home-based businesses. EBay has opened up markets and customers for them, in ways these merchants could never have accomplished on their own.*</blockquote><br /><br />I know a lot of small and home based companies that are doing business on eBay... I've even consulted for a couple. However, when discussing the impact of eBay on small business, just about everyone focuses on selling your product or service through auctions... however, there's more to it... a lot more.<br /><br />For example, I have purchased about $350,000.00 worth of computing equipment on Ebay-- servers, network connectivity gear, etc. Well, that's the retail value of the stuff... I actually PAID closer to $15,000. If you know how to use Ebay effectively you can save a fortune on the equipment your business needs. I have a lot of equipment that would have been way out of reach if Ebay didn't exist. It doesn't matter if you're a <a href="http://search.ebay.com/restaraunt_Restaurant_W0QQcatrefZC12QQfromZR8QQsacategoryZ11874QQsomorecategoriesZ1" target="_blank">restaurant</a>, a <a href="http://search.ebay.com/video-production_Professional-Video-Equipment_W0QQcatrefZC12QQfromZR7QQsacategoryZ21162" target="_blank">videographer</a>, or a <a href="http://search.ebay.com/auger_Construction_W0QQcatrefZC12QQfromZR7QQsacategoryZ11765QQsomorecategoriesZ1" target="_blank">construction company</a>-- you can find what you need on Ebay at steep discounts.<br /><br />Also, when its time to upgrade, you can sell your wares on Ebay as well. I've subsidized equipment upgrades by auctioning off the old unit, often recouping 50% of the cost!<br /><br />Bottom line: don't ignore Ebay in your business just because you don't have a product or service to sell there. It's a powerful tool for ALL small business owners.
