---
layout: post
title: "Longhorn Timeframe: Change is afoot..."
date: 2004-08-27 17:14
author: jrj
comments: false
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
Ironic, considering my last post: Microsoft has made major changes to the Longhorn project, recognizing that it was in danger of slipping into 2007 or later. The SuperSite has an <a href="http://www.winsupersite.com/showcase/longhorn_preview_2004.asp" target="_blank">excellent overview of the changes</a> (far better coverage than any other site-- clearly the inside scoop is here.) Some key points:<br /><br /><li>**Avalon and Indigo will ship with Longhorn, but will be available as an add-on for XP SP2.** This was sort of known, but now it's official. It's good news for everyone: the wider availability on desktops makes it far more viable for third party developers to target the technologies.<br /><br /></li><li>**The scaled-back Longhorn will ship (supposedly) by 2006...** they are suggesting "mid-2005" but I'll beleive that when I see it. This is good news for everyone as well.<br /><br /></li><li>**No WinFS in Longhorn.** This is too bad-- for me, WinFS was the *reason* for Longhorn. Alas, it's a fairly ambitions project, and it will ship several months (probably a year) later with Longhorn Server. They did clarify, however, that Longhorn will still include a powerful local search functionality, but not the relational store that WinFS will provide.<br /><br />I'm really bummed about WinFS not making the cut-- this was one of those technologies that was really getting me excited about computers again. However, I understand that Microsoft is recognizing that, as I'm often quoted as saying, "Shipping is a Feature."<br /><br />They've done a good job of re-steering the ship, and providing clarification about the new timelines. I wish them Godspeed.</li>
