---
layout: post
title: PocketPC
date: 2004-05-19 01:17
author: jrj
comments: false
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
When I got my first tablet, I noticed that my use of my PocketPC waned... it felt like I never really used it, except to make the occasional "note to self" voice recording... so I gave it to my wife, who loves it. <br /><br />However, after a little while without the PocketPC, I noticed that I really did still need a PDA: the tablet is too big to take with me *everywhere*, and sometimes the 5-seconds to resume from stand-by is just too much to jot down a quick note or check your calendar.<br /><br />Not wanting to carry yet another device, I decided to pick up a SmartPhone. This seems to be a nearly perfect compromise for a tablet user-- the SmartPhone makes an excellent "read-only" view of your PIM data, or allows for (painful) data entry in a pinch. It starts up immediately, and works very well. I've been pretty happy with the purchase. <br /><br />However, I'm doing some consulting work for a company whose primary product is a PocketPC-based application, so I have been playing around with some iPaqs the last couple weeks. They are a bit smaller than they used to be, and a LOT faster. I finally broke down and bought one the other day: an <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000DBJTZ/jrjcriticaldo-20?dev-t=mason-wrapper%26camp=2025%26link_code=xm2">iPaq 4100 series</a>. This is a really nice device-- very compact (and surprisingly light) and attractive. It has a transflective screen, so it looks beautiful inside, and works well in direct sunlight. However, the big win is built-in Wi-Fi. <br /><br />I had no idea how useful this feature would be when I bought the device, but it turns out that it is a fantastic thing to have in a PDA. A couple of things that this has enabled, including network printing, and even network syncing. Wireless network sync is the killer app for Wi-Fi-Enabled PDAs... the first time you press the sync button 100 feet away from your machien you'll be hooked. <br /><br />I'm not sure whether or not I'll continue to use the PocketPC after this gig is over... but I have to admit-- I have enjoyed this little glance at the product landscape. These are really nice little devices.
