---
layout: post
title: Cable advertising on the cheap
date: 2004-03-09 23:15
author: jrj
comments: false
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
OK, I promise I usually won't mention <a href="http://www.small-biz-advisor.com/" target="_blank">Small Biz Advisor</a> articles here very often, but rarely do I read something that catches me completely off guard.<br /><br />Mike McDaniel wrote an excellent <a href="http://www.small-biz-advisor.com/Articles/515.aspx" target="_blank"> article about local Cable TV advertising-- on the cheap</a>:<br /><br />"*Most [local cable operators] offer a package that will put your commercial into a mix of Cable network programs at all hours of the day for as little as $5 per commercial. Yup, $5 for a commercial on ESPN, CNN Headline News or the Discovery Channel.*"<br /><br />When I saw Mike's article on the publication roster this morning I almost didn't publish it-- I don't want hyperbole on the *Small Biz Advisor* site. However, a little investigating showed that what he's saying is true-- the rates for cable tv advertising are unbelievably inexpensive. Mike said $5 per insertion, which sounded fishy to me, so I called my local cable operator. Turns out that Mike's $5 estimate was pretty close to the mark: I could advertise my business locally on the boob tube for $7.50 per play. There were some catches, of course-- I had to buy at least 200 insertions, and they would play late at night on various stations without any level of control-- but still... what a great way to increase the perceived size of your company. Being able to say "perhaps you've seen our ad on tv?" to a prospective client buys a lot of credibility, even if (as is likely the case, given the loser time slots) they hadn't actually seen it.<br /><br />You learn something new every day. I would have guessed that this kind of advertising was many times more expensive than it is.
