---
layout: post
title: "Interviewing at Microsoft: Part I"
date: 2005-02-23 11:09
author: jrj
comments: false
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
I <a href="http://www.jrj.org/2005_02_01_archive.cfm#110797942117828314" target="_blank">mentioned</a> that I've been doing some job hunting. At this point, after talking to a few companies, I'm pretty much convinced that the right thing for me right now is to work at Microsoft. I've always assumed I'd do a 5 or 10 year stint in Redmond at some point in my career-- it was one of the reasons I agreed to move to Seattle when the company I was working for at the time was acquired by a company in Seattle. I think now is the time-- especially if I can get a job working on something related to digital media-- the Windows Media or Media Center Edition teams are very exciting to me.<br /><br />I was referred to a recruiter at Microsoft for a couple of specific positions on the Windows Media team by a friend of mine, and I've started the long and winding road towards a position at Microsoft. Since Microsoft's HR department receives over 6,000 resumes PER DAY (yes, really!) I figured there might be at least a couple of readers who might be interested in what the process looks like from a potential candidate's view. To that end, I'll share my experiences here as completely as is practical (and within the constrains of any confidentiality agreements I enter into as part of the process.)<br /><br />Anne, a recruiter at Microsoft, sent me a list of descriptions of positions that might be good fits, and said that she'd drop me a line within the next couple days to talk about next steps. A week went by, and I finally decided to drop her a line and see what was up.<br /><pre><br />Anne,<br /><br />I haven't heard from you since last Friday, and I<br />figured I should follow up. I was wondering if<br />there was anything I could do to smooth out the<br />process-- I'm the type of person who assumes that<br />the door is still open until it is explicitly<br />shut... so I guess unless I hear from you<br />otherwise, I'll just show up and start working<br />on Monday. ;-)<br /><br />Seriously, though... let me know if there is<br />anything you need from me in order to help move to<br />the next step in the process.<br /><br />Thanks again, and have a great weekend!<br /><br />--- Joseph R. Jones<br /></pre><p>She responded immediately-- within a couple hours-- to let me know that she had been out sick for the last week with a nasty sinus infection, and we set up a time for a phone screen the following week.<br /><br />I was excited about the opportunity, so I spent some time researching what the recruitment process at Microsoft was like. I was happy to find the Microsoft <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/jobsblog/" target="_blank">JobsBlog</a>-- an excellent resource created by a couple of enterprising recruiters at Microsoft. There's tons of great information there.<br /><br />The phone screen was set for 2pm last Thursday-- the day before I left for a little <a href="http://beta.pokerstreams.com/communities/pokerstreams/blog/2005_02_01_archive.htm#110893957142490238" target="_blank">mini-vacation </a>with my wife. At the appointed time, I was sitting at my desk, with my tablet PC open to OneNote ready to take notes from the call. I had a PDF copy of my resume open for reference, and my ubiquitous can of Cherry Coke. While I was waiting for the call, I was reading a couple posts on the JobsBlog I mentioned earlier, and re-reading the job descriptions that Anne had sent.<br /><br />Finally, the phone rang. The Caller ID screen identified the caller as "Microsoft Corp," and I answered on the second ring.<br /><br />(To be continued...)<br /><br />Update: <a href="http://www.jrj.org/2005_03_01_archive.cfm#110976592705489036">Interviewing with Microsoft: Part 2 has been posted</a>!<br /></p><p></p>
