---
layout: post
title: "Interviewing at Microsoft: Part 3"
date: 2005-03-07 08:44
author: jrj
comments: false
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
As Anne promised, I received an email from one of the hiring managers, Chad, within a few days of my HR phone screen. We set up a mutually agreeable time for us to talk. After a few days of excruciating anticipation, the day finally came. Our appointment was for 2:00pm, but I was sitting at my desk ready for the call by around 1. I did the same thing I had done before the HR screen: I read a few posts on the JobsBlog, I reviewed my resume, and the notes I had taken throughout the process. The appointed time came and went, and Chad's call finally came in about 15 minutes later.<br /><br />He started by going into an obviously pre-prepared speal about the group, the problems they are trying to solve, and the positions that are available. This took a little over 10 minutes. The level to which this came across as "practiced" was kind of funny, and I even made a little joke about it. "Sounds like this isn't the first time you've said that, Chad." He laughed, obviously aware that it sounded like he was reading a telemarketer's script. He asked me to describe my work experience that would be most relevant to the team, and I launched into an (equally practiced) "elevator description" of my time at Activated Content. (An elevator conversation is a 30-45 second promotional intro-- the term was popularized by the venture capital community.) He seemed genuinely interested in this, asking me several questions about watermarking technology in general, and how I see it fitting into the overall content protection landscape. This got interesting primarily because I had to make sure I was describing concepts in sufficient detail to show that I truly understood them, but staying within the constraints of my non-disclosure agreement with Activated.<br /><br />After a while, we started talking more about the role of a PM within the Microsoft organization, and he wanted to know what kind of experience I had in terms of conflict resolution, and getting disparate groups of stakeholders to generate a degree of consensus. I explained that in my role as an external consultant, I was very used to being in a position where I had the ultimate responsibility for the success of a given initiative, but no actual authority-- my only influence was through persuasion, both overt and subtle. He seemed satisfied with this response, and we moved on.<br /><br />Like Anne, Chad wanted to know if I felt I was prepared for a transition to a much larger company, and wanted to know why I wanted to make this kind of move. I explained that there were a number of reasons-- first, my 30th birthday is coming up in a few days, and I am starting to desire more stability and predictability in my life. Also, I've always been the primary contributor (often even completing 90-100% of the work) on projects that were only interesting to a small group of customers, and that I was interested in contributing-- even in a smaller way-- to projects that had more of an impact on the world around me. Finally, I explained that being in positions in small companies was extremely randomizing, and I wanted to finally have a support system so I could focus on moving a project forward. This one seemed to strike a nerve... "How do you think Microsoft would be any different in that regard?"<br /><br />I explained that, while Microsoft was similar conceptually to a collection of smaller companies-- some established like Windows, and other very much like a startup, like the Mac business unit. However, they all shared a common infrastructure-- there was administrative support, technical/IT support, and customer-facing support. Although there would be randomness, I wouldn't be the guy that got the page when the email server went down, or when a customer couldn't get connected. The majority of my workday could be focused on moving a project forward, which was something that I had not been able to do in the past. I explained that I understood that the higher degree of bureaucracy would offset the gains from the internal support, but that I felt that it would pale in comparison to the crazy atmosphere common in startups.<br /><br />A few more questions followed, and at the end, Chad said "I'll be frank, Joe-- I'm really encouraged by what I'm hearing, and I think there's probably a very good fit here." The funny thing is that even this line sounded like he was reading it-- it was almost as if he had a series of if/then clauses with different prepared responses. (I later spoke to a friend who had interviewed with Chad, and he revealed that Chad had used the EXACT SAME WORDS at the end of his phone screen!) Chad was a really cool guy-- very articulate, and his questions revealed a deep understanding not only of the specific areas he was working on, but related technologies and concepts. He was obviously a busy guy, and I think that the "preparedness" of his interview style indicated a desire to ask similar questions in order to establish a "baseline" for interview candidates by conducting a similar interview with everyone.<br /><br />Chad indicated that Anne would be in touch with me to set up a phone screen with a second hiring manager. (This is because I was applying for different positions under different managers.) I got an email the next day from the next hiring manager, Steve. He said that either before or after a 9-5 workday would work best for him, so we decided to have our conversation at 5:30 on a Tuesday.<br /><br />On Tuesday, 5:30 came and went, then 5:45. I dropped Steve an email making sure that he had the correct contact information, and to let him know that I'd be around for at least a couple hours if he was running late. I got a response almost immediately-- he was indeed running late, and promised to call in the next 5 minutes or so. A half hour later, the phone rang. :)<br /><br />If Chad was practiced and seemed like he was reading, Steve was energetic and came across as excited and conducted his phone screen in a much more seat-of-the-pants manner. Where Chad's questions centered primarily around the basic functions of the job(s) for which I was interviewing and the related technologies, Steve seemed more interested in my overall management style, my level of passion for technology, and my enthusiasm for digital media. (We had a great talk comparing and contrasting my iPod with my Personal Media Center, for example.) By the end of the conversation, I felt like Steve had a great idea of where I was coming from. We talked for about a half an hour, but it felt like 5 minutes... the whole time I was talking about things that are genuinely exciting to me, and the time just flew by-- I practically forgot I was in an interview. In addition to making me comfortable, this got me even more excited about working on this team... and I think Steve realized that.<br /><br />In the end, he let me know that he was going to recommend that I be brought in for an interview loop at the Redmond campus. He said I'd be hearing from Anne within the next couple days, and that he looked forward to meeting me.<br /><br />Yet another step in the long, winding road had been completed. Of course, now would come the biggest step: the marathon interview. The next day, I got an email from Anne letting me know that I would be hearing from a "recruiting coordinator" to handle the logistics of my in-person interview loop.<br /><br />(To be continued...)
