---
layout: post
title: I Thought I Was Becoming Immune to Tilt... Boy, Was I Wrong!
date: 2005-01-19 06:54
author: jrj
comments: false
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
A couple months ago, I noticed that I didn't really get on tilt anymore. I play a lot of low-limit poker because, here in Seattle, mid-limit tables just aren't always available. As we all know, suck-outs are the norm at low limit... however, I had gotten really good at shrugging these off, congratulating the player holding the winning cards, and continuing to play my game-- secure in the knowledge that good play wins the money over time. (And besides, if the bad players didn't drag a pot now and then they'd stop playing!)<br /><br />Tonight, though... tilt. Lots of tilt. Tilt-a-riffic. It was the kind of tilt that legends are made of.<br /><br />I've had a bad run the last few days with pocket aces. This is going to sound like an exaggeration, but I had lost literally 12 times in a row with a couple aces in my hand. (Not 12 hands in a row, I mean the last 12 times that I was dealt pocket aces I lost the hand on the turn or river.) This is just one of those things that isn't supposed to happen, but there it was.<br /><br />The 10th time I was a little frustrated (especially since I had flopped a set and was literally pouring chips into the pot trying to protect my hand, and the guy caught one of his four outs to make a strait on the river.) The 11th put me on a mild tilt, and by the 12th I was a goner. I started doing all the standard tilt activities... playing too many hands, chasing draws without proper pot odds, etc. You know the drill.<br /><br />It wasn't just the aces-- I was constantly losing with sets, top-two pair, straits falling to flushes filled on the river, etc. I was doing my best to protect these hands, but the drunkards at the table were happy to cold-call 2 and 3 bets with even the weakest of hands/draws.<br /><br />2 hours (and $400 in chips) later, I got up from the table for a bathroom break, and had a little conversation with myself...<br /><br />Q: Why am I on tilt?<br />A: Because these jackasses keep catching their impossible 2 and 4 outers and runner-runners to beat my great hands.<br /><br />Q: Is that really it?<br />A: No. I'm frustrated because I'm letting it bother me and knock me off my A game... and my play is getting worse and worse.<br /><br />Q: Should I go home? Can I salvage the situation?<br />A: I think I can play right. I'll try one more hour and see if I'm still not playing well I'll head out.<br /><br />I sat back down (I had only missed 2 early position hands!) and did my hour of playing my "A game."<br /><br />At the end of the hour, I had gone from being stuck $400 to being only about $120 behind. I was playing well (despite the occasional suck-out) and had overcome my tilt.<br /><br />In the end, it was a +$240 session. I kept getting some lousy cards, and could tell a half dozen bad-beat stories that occurred during my late-night comeback... but I had overcome my tilt, and eked out a winning session. (Although my hourly rate sucked pretty bad-- I was there for about 10 hours!)<br /><br />This is the first time I've tilted off a lot of chips like that in months... and I'm not proud of it.
