---
layout: post
title: "New Toy: Cingular 8125 Windows Mobile Phone"
date: 2006-04-04 00:49
author: jrj
comments: false
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
I've been wanting a new mobile phone for some time now. I bought my previous phone (a Motorola MPX220 SmartPhone) a year and a half ago. At the time, it fit my needs perfectly-- I worked out of the home 99% of the time, and when I went to client sites I always had my tablet PC with me. The only time I used the PDA functionality on my SmartPhone was when I was out running errands or during "personal time."  I got a lot of email, but most of it was from readers of my various web sites, and so it was shuttled off into various folders by autofilters. There were only 30-50 messages per day that were actually actionable-- things from coworkers, clients, etc. that required me to actually DO something. And aside from server outage issues (which also sent SMS messages to me) I didn't really have ANY messages that were in the "must-deal-with-NOW-or-else" variety.<br /><br />Then, I changed careers.<br /><br />Fast forward a year and a half. I have a new gig at Microsoft, and most of the criteria that existed when I bought my MPX220 have fundimentally changed. I now go to an office every day, and spend the overwhelming majority of my time in meetings and roaming the halls and corridors talking to people. I love my TabletPC, but it's too bulky to take with me EVERYWHERE. Sometimes, I just want to jot down a quick note, or add a task to my list... the SmartPhone was good enough to do this once in a while, but to do it a dozen times a day requires something a little bigger. I also get hundreds of messages per day that are actionable, which is a huge shift... and some of them are in the "must-deal-with-NOW-or-else" variety.<br /><br />So what did I buy? The <a href="https://business.cingular.com/cingular/phones/phone_details_main.jsp?skuId=sku80460382&amp;isItemOutOfStock=false&amp;parentCatId=cat17840066&amp;productId=prod88950262&amp;categoryId=cat17840084">Cingular 8125</a>.<br /><br />The new phone fits my needs perfectly... it has a good-sized thumb keyboard. (I spent 15 minutes typing away on a Treo 700 and on an 8125, and I was able to get 60% more text entered on the 8125 in that time. It's measurably better for my giant claw-shapmed mandibles I call "hands.") It has a great screen-- especially in landscape mode. Perfect for viewing a calendar with a dozen overlapping meetings. Perfect for managing a massive task list with (at last count) 52 projects, 227 tasks, and 18 categories. And perfect for browsing my favorite RSS feeds when I have a free moment. Most importantly, though, I can jot a quick note without having to fight against T9 input.<br /><br />And email? Moving to a device that has Windows Mobile 2005 (and hence integration with Exchange PUSH email technology) is like night and day. It's a beautiful thing.<br />I'm thrilled with the device, and I'm really enjoying it. I take my tablet PC only to meeting that I'm responsible for generating notes for distribution... otherwise, the phone/pda hybrid is my meeting companion.<br /><br />Also, the camera phone on this device is MUCH better than the one on the MPX220... great for quick casual pictures. Will it compete with a digital SLR? Uh... no. But it's not supposed to. It's about as good as can be expected for a 1.3 megapixel camera integrated in with a cell phone.<br /><br />What about the phone itself?<br /><br />Well, when my brother-in-law asked me what phone (with PDA functionality) he should buy, I told him that there were two major classes of phones...<br /><br />1.)  Phones with integrated PDA functionality (like most SmartPhones)<br />2.) PDAs with integrated phone functionality (like most PocketPC phones.)<br /><br />I explained that, while this was a subtle distinction, it was an important one. I think it is key to look at what you use more often, and optimze for that use. Well, I almost never use my phone. Last month, I racked up a mere 38 minutes. My average monthly usage? 42 minutes. I'm just not a phone guy. The overwhelming majority of my phone calls consist of "Yeah... I'm in a meeting. I'll swing by and talk to you about that when I'm done."<br /><br />For this kind of use, the 8125 has served me perfectly... I'm the wrong guy to ask to judge its quality as a phone because if it had glaring flaws (which I don't think it does) I probably wouldn't really notice them. The only way I interact with the phone is with my excellent Motorola bluetooth headset-- I either click the button on the earphone to answer an incoming call, or I click the little button and say "Rachel Home" and it calls my wife. I don't really interact with my phone much even in the rare cases I actually use it.<br /><br />Bottom line, I'm thrilled with the purchase. It's a good device, and was VERY reasonably priced. ($299 is the price currently shown on the Cingular web site... I paid a tad less than that because of some special discounts.) Great value for the money.
