---
layout: post
title: Stream of Consciousness
date: 2006-08-16 12:22
author: jrj
comments: false
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
I’ve been really swamped with work for the last couple weeks, so I haven’t had much time to post here. Here’s a quick stream of consciousness posting about what’s going on in my world...<br /><br />I’m horribly addicted to “<a href="http://ww2.capcom.com/deadrising/">Dead Rising</a>,” a cool zombie game for the XBox 360. I can’t stop playing, despite the fact that I completely suck at it. (There’s a specific spot where I keep dying as I get surrounded by about 300 zombies because the lawnmower I was using as a weapon runs out of gas. Tell me that doesn’t sound fun!) As someone who is a big fan of the entire zombie movie genre, this is as close as I’ve ever seen to an interactive version of “Dawn of the Dead.” This is literally the game I’ve always wished existed. There’s just no better way to take out frustrations than wrecking havoc on a horde of a thousand zombies. A few technical flaws aside (the save functionality is fundamentally broken, which makes the game EXTREMELY difficult) this is what I would have built if I were to create a zombie game (and had some talent.) Stunning graphics, incredibly inventive gameplay, surprisingly good voice acting, and a perfectly campy plotline with completely over-the-top twists and turns that perfectly complements the zombie-killing mayhem. And the fact that they can throw over a thousand independently animated 3d characters on the screen at a time is a genuine technical achievement. I love this game.<br /><br />Clerks II was hilarious. It’s OK, he’s taking it back. (Don’t go see this movie if you’re easily offended. Seriously.)<br /><br />I love my job. I work with exceptionally brilliant, passionate people and every single day is completely different. I always feel like I’m the dumbest guy in the room, and that’s incredibly motivating.<br /><br />A3’s excellent “<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000005ZL1/104-4108337-4144709?v=glance&amp;n=5174">Exile on Cold Harbor Lane</a>” is quickly becoming one of my favorite albums of all time. It’s available on <span style="text-decoration: strikethrough"><a href="http://www.zune.net/">Zune</a>, if you happen to have a subscription. (Favorites: Mao Tse Tung Said, Hypo Full of Love)<br /><br />Check out the <a href="http://services.newsgator.com/ngws/svc/ClippingsRSS.aspx?uid=28642">RSS feed for blog posts I’m digging on</a>. If I can’t blog, at least I can link.  :)<br /><br />My niece is turning 16 in a few days... I was the lamaze coach when she was born. This has been a bigger reminder to me that I’m getting old than my 30th birthday was. (Well, that and the fact that I can’t walk up a flight of stairs without taking a nap at the halfway point. In fact, I am a little winded after typing that sentence.)  I wish I could be there to celebrate with her.  :(<br /><br />“Motherf%$king snakes on a motherf%$king plane!” Who but Samuel L. Jackson could deliver that line?<br /><br />My favorite response lately has been “Short version: yes, with a but. Long version: No, with an if.”  That usually keeps people busy for about a half an hour.<br /><br />Energy drinks are not an appropriate replacement for sleep, even over short durations. Sheer terror, on the other hand, seems to work pretty well.<br /><br />Dogs are cool. My dog throws a party for me every time I’m gone for more than 12 seconds. He’s insane and delightfully funny. I envy his outlook on life.<br /><br />And I’ll close with a quote from the track I’m currently listening to:<br /><blockquote><span class="Apple-style-span" style="font-style: italic">For whatever reason you refuse to feel this space we’re in<br />to know its insanity, really know it<br />whatever your particular anesthetic is,<br />that you hold on to so desperately<br />the thing, I mean, that makes you THINK you know who you are<br />whatever that thing is you allow to keep you sane...<br />your ace in the hole...<br />the psyche that keeps you from trying to guess at what your PIMP has in store for you...<br />whatever keeps you from screaming out at at this very moment in absolute and sheer horror...<br />whatever your fuck your brain with<br />whatever that is, whatever that is, it’s a lie. It’s a LIE!<br /></span>(A3, “Peace in the Valley” from Exhile on Coldharbour Lane)<br /></blockquote><br />I’m going to bed.</span>
